
                              ESTES _Park_
                                COLORADO


                      ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK

                             VACATION LAND

                           OPEN ALL THE YEAR




                         _Estes Park, Colorado_
              Center of the Nation’s Greatest Playground—
                     _Rocky Mountain National Park_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

At the Eastern entrance to this National playground is the modern town
of Estes Park, with an elevation of 7,549 feet. Estes Park has daily
mail service, direct telegraph and long distance telephone connections,
and most efficient electric and phone service. Its water, only a few
hours from the eternal snow fields, is 99 per cent pure by test, and
fresh pure milk from inspected herds is delivered daily.

There is also a fine Public Library, an Auditorium, Protestant and
Catholic churches, and an up-to-date weekly newspaper and printing
plant.

Adjoining the Village is the Estes Aviation Country Club featuring a
3000 ft. runway, 9-hole golf course, tennis courts, scenic passenger
flights and other recreational activities.

There is a well managed pavilion for those who like to dance. Special
dances are frequently held at many of the hotels and lodges. The
theatres offer the latest motion picture releases. Horseback riding,
bowling, hiking and golf are major recreational activities.

Adjoining the Village are the administration headquarters for the
fifty-four million dollar Colorado-Big Thompson Diversion project, which
is to divert the waters of the Colorado river from the western to the
eastern slopes of the Continental Divide by means of a 13-mile tunnel
through the Rockies.

Outstanding and nationally known boys’ and girls’ camps where young
people may enjoy healthful surroundings under sympathetic instructors
offer campcraft, woodcraft, mountaineering, natural science and
horsemanship.

During the summer Estes Park is the center of activity for many
thousands of people, its local shops and stores economically supplying
their every need. These stores are up-to-date and stocks are complete.
Prices are moderate. Many of these stores maintain a daily delivery
service to outlying districts.

Come up here for a day, a week or a month and you’ll go back home with
the gallery of your mind filled with the pictures these hills and
canyons and aspens, slopes and gulches and glaciers have hung upon its
walls.


                      Rocky Mountain National Park

Rocky Mountain National Park, adjoining Estes Park Village, embraces 405
square miles of unsurpassed mountain scenery, including 65 towering
peaks over 10,000 feet high, 150 highland lakes, scores of rushing
streams, babbling brooks and dashing waterfalls. Here the natural
attractions are so varied a visitor is almost bewildered by the wide
choice of vacation endeavors which could fill an entire summer.

Visitors are urged to take advantage of naturalist services. Schedules
of hikes and nature walks, as well as evening campfire discussions, are
announced weekly. Three museums on geologic, historic, biologic and
other aspects of the Park are open throughout the season. Auto caravans,
led by naturalists to outstanding areas too far for hiking, bring
visitors to rare regions of scenic wonder.

    [Illustration: Elkanah Valley and Longs Peak from Twin Sisters.]


          Plan to Include These Auto Trips In Your Itinerary—

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

ESTES PARK TO GRAND LAKE—Over spectacular Trail Ridge Road. Highest
through highway in the world.

FALL RIVER ROAD—Open to Chasm Falls. Good trip for picnics. This highway
open to UP travel only from Chasm Falls to Fall River Pass.

BEAR LAKE—Road paved. This trip takes you to the very base of the range.

SOUTH ST. VRAIN, ALLENS PARK, LYONS—Return to Estes Park via NORTH ST.
VRAIN. A beautiful trip through the foothills.

BIG THOMPSON CANYON LOOP TRIP—Return to Estes Park via North St. Vrain
or South St. Vrain highways.

DEVIL’S GULCH TRIP—Through shady, winding roads to connect with new
scenic Big Thompson highway.

HORSESHOE PARK LOOP TRIP—Over High Drive and back through Horseshoe Park
and scenic section of Fall River road.

    [Illustration: Chasm Falls, on a tumbling mountain stream fresh from
    the ever-present snow banks, is just off the old Fall River highway,
    above Horseshoe Park.]

    [Illustration: Horseback riding is almost synonymous with a vacation
    at Estes Park. Into the very heart of the Rockies, thru pine scented
    forests, along the banks of crystal clear lakes, you can ride or
    hike.]

    [Illustration: Well stocked streams present a fisherman’s paradise,
    and each year give up tons of rainbow and speckled beauties to
    anglers.]

    [Illustration: Grand Lake, western entrance to Rocky Mountain
    National Park and highest yacht anchorage in the world.]


                               LAKE ESTES

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Only a few minutes drive from the Village of Estes Park, at the foot of
majestic, snow-capped peaks and amid alpine splendor is beautiful new
Lake Estes.

Created as part of the Colorado-Big Thompson project, this lake is a
mecca for vacationists who enjoy water sports of all kinds.

There is lake fishing at its best since Lake Estes has been heavily
stocked with game trout. There is no satisfaction akin to landing a
fighting lake trout, unless it is eating one caught from the sparkling
clean waters of Lake Estes!

Many hours of relaxing enjoyment can be experienced in this area—there’s
a particular sport for every member of the family, and Lake Estes will
help make your vacation complete. Boating, sun-bathing, or hiking are
but a few of the reasons why Lake Estes is the center of activities in
the Playground of America—Estes Park.

    [Illustration: This is an artist’s conception of Lake Estes. Its
    waters held back by Olympus Dam. A half-mile above the inlet is the
    Village of Estes Park, and beyond the town the grandeur of the
    Rockies and the Continental Divide.]

    [Illustration: Panoramic glimpse of Estes Village, the center of
    your vacation activities.]




                      _Estes Park—Vacation Center_


Surrounded by mountains of majestic beauty with their glacial gorges,
deep forests, tumbling mountain streams, blue shimmering lakes and
eternal snow, Estes Park Village is the center of activity for
vacationists from all over America. It is the answer to your dreams of a
vacation paradise.

Radiating from the Village are scenic highways offering every type of
mountain scenery from grassy aspen glens to the sheer rugged cliffs of
the Continental Divide.

And yet, in the Village itself and in the hotels, lodges and cottages
are to be found modern accommodations, excellent food, comfortable beds,
and all the services to meet your needs.

The Chamber of Commerce invites you to register at its office. We want
to assist in every way possible in making your visit the most enjoyable
you have ever had.

    [Illustration: LONGS PEAK From almost any point in the Park this
    peak can be seen reaching its towering summit, 14,255 feet above sea
    level into the clear, crisp air.]

    [Illustration: Winter sports show a tremendous gain in popularity
    especially for the young and hardy sportsman.]

    [Illustration: Scenic view along the South St. Vrain highway at a
    point near the foot of Mt. Meeker, second highest peak in the area.]

    [Illustration: Above timberline eternal snows await your visit any
    month of the year on the world famous Trail Ridge Road.]

    [Illustration: This is a typical Estes Park View from your hotel or
    cottage window.]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: Entrance to the awe-inspiring Big Thompson Canyon. A
    wide, oiled highway runs along the banks of the roaring Big Thompson
    River into Estes Park.]


                   For Further Information Address——

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

                          CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
                          Estes Park, Colorado
                        W. C. DAVIE, Sec’y-Mgr.




                       _How to Get to Estes Park_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned map}]

Driving? From the east you may take U. S. 6, 24, 34, 40 or 50 and
Colorado 7 or 66.

From the south, U. S. 85 or 87 to Denver; then a choice of U. S. 87 and
287 or Colorado 185, 7 and 66.

From the west, U. S. 40 or 50. And from the north, U. S. 85 or 87 to
Loveland where you take U. S. 34.

By rail? If so, just ask your local ticket agent to sell you a through
ticket, including a coupon for bus transportation to the Park. Baggage
may be checked straight through. At certain times of the year there are
special round trip rates, about which it is well to inquire.

Coming by air? New fast schedules place Denver not more than 8 hours
flying time from any point in the U. S. Local charter service between
Denver and Estes Park is available during the summer months. Check with
the airlines for detailed information.

Either coming or leaving, you should arrange to take a trip through the
beautiful Big Thompson Canyon, which is one of the most picturesque and
unique of all canyon drives. U. S. highway 34 is the Big Thompson route
into Estes Park.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's Estes Park, Colorado, by Chamber of Commerce

